# Sonic

WebView-based audio plugin framework.

Sonic is an audio plugin framework that supports VST3, CLAP, and AUv3.

It is designed around the use of a WebView, enabling smooth parameter communication between the UI and DSP processing. The audio engine is implemented in C++, while the UI is intended to be built using frameworks such as React or Vue.

A scaffolding tool is available via npm, allowing you to quickly generate a template project. The framework also includes a CLI-based development host for loading and displaying VST3 and CLAP plugins, making it easy to test plugins directly from the terminal.

Currently, only macOS is supported.

The framework provides two variant of templates:

- A CMake-based multi-target project (VST3 / CLAP / AUv3)
- An AUv3 Xcode project template (Swift/C++)

The core synthesizer API is shared across targets, with multiple wrapper implementations built on top of it.

When developing AUv3 plugins, using the exact same codebase as VST3/CLAP can sometimes limit fine-grained control. To address this, Sonic provides multiple templates so you can choose the most appropriate implementation for each target and maintain flexibility.

## Prerequisites

Node.js is required to run the CLI tool.

### cpp-multi-target

Requires:

- Xcode Command Line Tools (`xcode-select --install`)
- CMake
- Ninja

If you already have an environment capable of building VST3 or CLAP plugins with CMake, you should be able to build Sonic template projects without additional setup.

### auv3-swift-xcode

Requires:

- Xcode

## Project Generation

```bash
npx sonic-shell
```

```
Sonic Framework CLI
│
◇  Select an operation
│  create
│
◇  Select a template
│  cpp-multi-target
│
◇  Enter project name
│  CppMultiTarget1
│
◇  Pick target platforms
│  VST3, CLAP, AUv3
│
◇  Include framework source code?
│  No
│
◇  Add VST3/CLAP development hosts?
│  Yes
│
◇  Add entry Makefile?
│  Yes
│
◇  AUv3 Manufacturer Code
│  Myco
│
◇  AUv3 Subtype
│  abcd
project CppMultiTarget1 created.

```

Run npx sonic-shell to launch the CLI wizard and follow the prompts to generate a project.

The generated project will have a structure like this:

```
.
├── cmake
│   ├── base-info.plist.in
│   └── setup-sdks.cmake
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── CMakePresets.json
├── Makefile
├── run.sh
├── source
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   ├── cpp-multi-target1-factory.cpp
│   ├── cpp-multi-target1-synthesizer.cpp
│   └── cpp-multi-target1-synthesizer.h
├── wrapper
│   ├── auv3-xcode-project
│   │   ├── CppMultiTarget1
│   │   ├── CppMultiTarget1.xcodeproj
│   │   └── CppMultiTarget1Extension
│   ├── clap
│   │   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   │   └── plugin-entry.cpp
│   └── vst3
│       ├── CMakeLists.txt
│       ├── plugin-factory.cpp
│       └── version.h
└── www
    ├── assets
    │   ├── index.css
    │   └── index.js
    └── index.html

```

- `source` contains the application (DSP) code
- `wrapper` contains entry point for each plugin format
- `www` contains the WebView-based UI

## Build

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja
cmake --build build
```

## Testing with DevHost

```bash
./build/ninja/bin/Debug/VstDevHost ./build/ninja/lib/Debug/project1-vst3.vst3
```

## Quick Run

If you selected Yes for "Add entry Makefile?" during project setup, a Makefile will be included.

This allows you to build and run the project with simple commands:

```bash
make
make run
```

You can also use the provided CMake Presets when building from an IDE.

## Development Flow

1. Implement your DSP in `source/*-synthesizer.cpp`
2. Build a UI in `www/index.html` (or using your preferred framework)
3. Build the project with CMake
4. Run the plugin using DevHost or load it in your DAW

In most cases, you do not need to modify the code in `wrapper/`.

## Notes

Projects generated by the sonic-shell CLI tool do not depend on the CLI afterward. You can continue development independently as a standard CMake project.

The generated CMakeLists.txt includes code that uses FetchContent to retrieve the Sonic repository. Downloaded files are stored in `~/.sonic/repos/<tag>`, including the VST3 and CLAP SDKs. These are treated as a cache, so it is safe to delete them if needed.

## License

MIT
